In the last video we looked up if l statements and holler can use them to tell the program what to do
based on your face and condition is met.
Now we're going to move on to look at a switch statements which is a great alternative to the if l statements
if needs checked against many conditions.
So I am when to get started by creating a variable called favourite food.
And on a surface to be a string of pizza.
And then when you use a switch statement to check many different types of food and then check if these
match up with the variable of favourite food.
So to be an ace which statements we use we switch key word.
And then inside a set of buckets would then pass in the variable that we want to check against.
So place inside there and then just like the if statement that were used before we then use a set of
curly braces and there would be these curly braces we can put in all the expressions that we want to
check against.
And then also provide a outcome if this expression is met.
So we switch statements we check against different cases so we use the case keyword.
So the first case we could check if the favourite food is a courey.
So let's test if this is equal to Curry.
And only to use a colon and then once we done the call on we can then provide an outcome if this is
a match.
So we're going to use a echo and then we're going to say I'll of carry for dismissal on at the end.
And then after each one of these expressions we need to use the break keyword with the semicolon.
So this breaks out of the switch statement if this is true.
And if not it's moved down to the next case.
So we use the case keyword again and this time when a check if the case is Chinese again the colon and
the echo of I love Chinese.
And then just like before we break key word.
And then one more.
So case this time Pead sir.
Echo.
I love pizza.
And if this is true we can break out of this which statements.
OK.
So that's how we lay out a switch statement is one more piece we need to add into here before we test
that.
We need to write a default case just in case any of these expressions above don't match.
So this is more of a buckle up.
So default.
And then the colon.
And then to echo.
I don't know.
OK.
So let's say this and test it so he can probably work out what's gonna happen here.
We've got our favourite food said pizza.
So we should get the case of pizza much dough up in an eco Isle of pizza.
I do.
So lurchers changes to be Chinese.
And that should change too.
I love Chinese.
And then Cory.
That works fine.
Of kurri.
So I will test the falso can changes to be pasta.
So we don't have a case for Pastor So we should get the default of I don't know.
Which would you say that's good.
So that's it.
That's all we can use a switch statement.
MP HP to test against multiple outcomes.